In Play! Pokemon tournaments, players are allowed to bring six Pokemon and can only choose from those six. Each round the trainer chooses three of those six to battle their opponent. The Pokemon selected and the order these Pokemon are selected in matter a great deal and can often determine how the matchup will go. Team must be six unique Pokemon and cannot have the same species ID. For example Marowak has 4 different forms: Kanto Marowak, Alolan Marowak, Shadow Kanto Marowak, and Shadow Alolan Marowak. Only one of those can be on the same team at a time.

In each round there are several resources to consider. Each trainer is given 2 shields which block charge moves, match alignment, and a 45 second switch timer that allows the trainer to swap into a different Pokemon. During this 45 second cooldown the Pokemon are locked into the matchup and unable to return from battle until they either faint or the cooldown expires. When a trainer swaps out a Pokemon they are giving up the alignment resource because then the opponent can swap into a different Pokemon and it may hard counter theirs. This is called swap and counter swap. If you have a strong counter swap into an opponent it is usually excellent because they are locked into a bad matchup for at least 45 seconds where you can do massive amount of damage without taking much in return. This can heavily sway the rounds to help you win. For shields it is best to save them for high damage moves or to shield to ensure a winning matchup to gain alignment. When you win the lead matchup you opponent can must bring into another Pokemon and you are given the opportunity to choose the Pokemon you want to bring against theirs, this is referred to as alignment meaning the trainer that won the lead gets alignment onto their opponents Pokemon. These three resources can be utilized in different ways to gain advantages or play out of bad scenarios. For example, you may have a negative matchup but you can use shields and quick charging moves to stall out the timer to prevent significant damage to a Pokemon to get out of the situation.

It is important to have a diverse team that has coverage into many other pokemon. The coverage is determined by my Pokemon's typing and the type of moves it can learn. For example, Skeledirge is a fire and ghost Pokemon so generally it is good into grass and fighting type Pokemon. Its typing makes it susceptible to ground, rock, dark, ghost, and water types. The moves Skeledirge can learn are Hex, Incinerate, Disarming Voice, Shadow Ball, Blast Burn, and Torch Song. These moves are strong into grass, steel, ghost, and ice. Disarming Voice is good because the fairy damage provides coverage into dragons that typically resist fire moves.

However, Disarming Voice lacks same type attack bonus (STAB) which is a modifier to moves where the Pokemon has the same type as the move counter to a move like Aqua Tail used by a water type would receive this bonus damage. STAB boosts damage by 1.25x multiplier.

You want a mix of bulky Pokemon to tank charge attacks and attack heavy Pokemon to force shields from your opponent and to do major damage to their Pokemon.

There are two types of moves fast and charge moves. Fast moves are turn based moves that are used. 1 turn moves attack every 1/2 seconds, 2 turn moves every second, and 3 turn moves ever 1-1/2 second, 4 turn moves every 2 seconds, and 5 turn moves every 2-1/2 seconds. 1 turn moves offer the most flexibility because you can throw your charge moves or swap every half second giving trainers more ability whereas 5 turn moves are inflexible because you have to wait 2-1/2 seconds every time you use your fast move. This gives your opponent to thrown their moves in between that time or swap to another Pokemon during your move animation.

Moves come in different flavors. Some moves are cheap moves but do less damage and others require a lot of energy but do significant damage. This affects the damage per energy value (DPE). Moves with the highest DPE are better but things like energy cost and additional effects must be consider. Low energy moves can be considered spam or bait moves because they are reached quickly but generally do not do as much damage. If your opponent shields a low energy move that is good because they used one of their 2 available shields on a move that did not take much to acquire. A good strategy is to bluff to your opponent by allowing them to think you are throwing an expensive charge move when actually you bait them with a cheap move and they waste a shield on something that should not have. This can be risky however because the bait move might do significantly less damage and if your opponent does not use a shield then it will put you at a disadvantage wasting that energy when you could have used the stronger move. Nuke moves are moves that do a lot of damage but have a trade off like high energy cost or self debuff. For example, Brave Bird has excellent damage per energy but will debuff your Pokemon causing them to take more damage. When using these moves it is best to throw them against your opponent, do the damage and switch out for another Pokemon to remove the debuff. You give up alignment but have the potential to force your opponent to shield or take massive damage. When using Pokemon with self debuffing moves it is best to have highly ranked switches on your team so that they are safer into other Pokemon your opponent may have since you are forced to use your switch and give up alignment to remove the debuff.

For fast moves, it is good to have a mix of high damage fast moves and quick generating fast moves. High damage fast moves provide consistent damage regardless of shields. Quick generating fast moves allow your Pokemon to reach charge moves that deal the majority of damage to Pokemon in battle.

Also moves like Rock Tomb have the ability to debuff your opponent lowers their attack by one stage. These are excellent moves because the debuff will last until that Pokemon is out of battle so you can turn a bad type matchup on paper into a win because they do less damage than normal. Equally, buffing moves like Rage Fist are great because you can ramp up damage on your own Pokemon growing stronger each time it is used. For these Pokemon it is best to stay in battle to keep your buffs and to use shields on them so they last as long as possible to take advantage of that buff.

For the rankings it is important to consider overall, leads, switches, and closers. Overall highly ranked Pokemon fill the generalist role where they are good against many different Pokemon; however, they still have weaknesses and be hard countered. Leads are pokemon that are best utilized in the lead position because they can reach charge moves quickly to put pressure on the opponent and have nuke moves that force shields early, or they have high damage fast moves to ensure damage onto the opponent regardless of shields. Switches Pokemon in the back of your lineup that are more consistent and have safer matchups into the majority of other Pokemon. These are Pokemon that have potential to flip alignment onto your side by winning after coming in or force your opponent to utilize a shield in order to maintain their alignment. Closer Pokemon ones that you want to save until the end and can sweep, meaning they can knock out several Pokemon with an energy or shield lead. Sometimes closer Pokemon are good because of their bulk and typing leaving your opponent with no options. For example Carbink is a good closer because only water, ground, and grass are good into it and even then it is bulky enough to tank a hard hitting hydro cannon water moves and still survive.

For the team of six Pokemon consider different potential lineups of three Pokemon. There are different ways to structure a lineup of three. They are ABA, ABB, and ABC. ABA lineups you structured where the two A Pokemon have similar strengths and weaknesses. For example, a team of Jellicent and Azumarill are bulky water types strong into a fire, rock, or ground types but weak to electric and grass. If your opponents team does not have a good electric or grass type then it is safe to run this type of lineup and gives you the ability to play strong into something you expect in the lead or to protect your B Pokemon from its strongest counter. ABB teams are structured differently whereas you complement your lead Pokemon and with two Pokemon in the back to cover the lead weakness. For example Bastiodon has a double weakness to ground Pokemon so you can put Bastiodon in the lead and two grass Pokemon in the back. This allows you to swap into a grass Pokemon, take out the opponents grass counter then sweep with your other grass Pokemon in the back because you have taken out your opponents. ABC teams have the best coverage because all three Pokemon have strengths but you lack a backup if you are forced into a bad matchup and lose your one answer for a specific Pokemon. For ABC teams you want more generalist Pokemon that are safe into a large portion of the meta and have the ability to battle against many different Pokemon while you utilize shields and switch timer to dance around.
